# opensdk-spec
OpenSDK for creating shared documentation and naming conventions across enginneering teams

## Why this tool?
OpenSDK was created to address a problem that I have seen in companies that offer SDKs in multiple languages. Different teams managed the different language implementations and as a result there were no common naming conventions or even parity between function arguments for different implementations. 

The OpenAPI spec provides a way to think about this problem. The OpenAPI spec is useful for engineers in different teams to collaborate designing an RESTful API. This solves the problem of siloing and makes sure that there is a cohesive vision, naming, and return values for the API that is being designed. OpenSDK follows this thinking and is a tool for engineers that are doing the similar work on libraries and SDKs that do alot of client-side calculations. 

## Who needs this tool?
There are two main groups – and one auxiliary group – that can benefit from a tool like OpenSDK. 

The first group are teams of engineers who are tasked with either creating libraries or SDKs for many different languages. The second group are teams that act as a hub for internal developers to a company. These engineers are usually tasked with creating standard libraries/packages that are to be shared to internal developers. The third group are engineers who have to work on a core business/internal library that is used by other developers in the company. 

## What’s the difference between this and OpenAPI?
This is a tool for engineers that are working on SDKs that do a lot of client side processing. OpenAPI shines when it is describing a RESTful API endpoint. OpenSDK allows engineers to document libraries and SDKs that are more than just wrappers for RESTful endpoints. If your library or SDK does heavy client-side processing, then this is for you. 

## Usage
OpenSDK is a CLI that has one command: generate. This command takes the path (full or relative) to an OpenSDK yaml file. You can see [an example of the OpenSDK spec here](https://github.com/ShariqT/opensdk-spec/blob/main/spec.yaml). 
 

## Contributing
Please feel free to leave issues and contribute to the project. You will need to have at least version 1.21.1 of Golang and templ installed. You should not edit any of the go files in the “templates” directory. These are auto-generated by templ.

To generate new go files in the “templates” directory after changing a `.templ` file, run the following command:  `templ generate ./templates/`

If you have an eye for design, I encourage you especially to contribute; the design is very utilitarian and not pleasant to look at.


